So now, we've got to go about curling node exporter.
So now, we're going to extract that node exporter file with tar x, z,
f. We're going to go inside of that sub-directory that we've just extracted.
We're going to move node exporter into user local bin,
so it's available on our local file system.
We need to run this with sudo.
So sudo bang bang,
runs our previous command, we'll do that.
Next, we're going to need to configure node exporter as a service.
We're going to need to set up the node exporter service.
So we're going to add into SE system, D system,
node exporter, and we're just going to
set it up so that we set the correct target and the correct exact path.
We're going to save this file.
Now, we're going to configure that service to actually be running.
So going to restart.
Well, we're doing a daemon reload,
which is essential if you're changing one of your system D files,
you always need to run the daemon reload.
Now, we're going to start the node exporter service.
So now we're going to check the status of the node exporter.
We see here that is active,
we can see if there are any error messages,
and we see is listening on port 9100.
So now, we're going to go into our Prometheus configuration file.
We're going to need to run this as the root user because we're still on Ubuntu.
So we have to sudo and in our Prometheus configuration file we need to add
an additional job name for our newly monitored metric here.
So at the end of the file,
we're just going to create a new line and then we're going to
paste in the contents of that.
We're just going to change the target to be local host here.
Great. So we're going to save that and now,
we're just going to go ahead and restart Prometheus.
Great. So now, we can actually pop on
over to the web interface once we verify the status of Prometheus.
It looks good, servers ready,
demonstrates the port there, 000 going 1990.
So you're going to put it in the IP address.
So in this case,
we're using the public IP address of the instance.
We're going to first, start by going into Status and Targets.
We're just going to see the values that are listed here.
We can't actually click on these links because they're not valid endpoints.
Although what we can do instead and we're going to demonstrate
this is we're going to just alter the IP address,
so we can show you what the metrics look like.
Basically, what happens is for the boxes that are being monitored,
they're just run a little web server on a nonstandard port,
that is serving up this content.
That Prometheus is then able to scrape and it makes it extremely
flexible in terms of changing what is your monitoring, adding new things.
So we're just going to take a look here at node memory mem available,
and we're going to take this over to our Prometheus console.
We're just going to plunk this right in there and now I'm doing
them underscore, mem available.
Let's go and just execute this.
So we can see what we get is the current value for that.
Great. So we have gone about installing Ansible.
We have clone the Ansible-prometheus,
and installed pip and tox,
setup a role for this Ansible-prometheus.
Created an inventory file,
created a main YAML playbook and
run the playbook that includes that role from the checkout.
Installed node exporter and configured it.
We've also just very briefly,
dotted into the web interface but not really done very much, so forth.
Wonderful. So now we've successfully installed Prometheus,
we've gone in and verified in the web interface that we have data, inside of there.
Now, we can go about looking into graphing some of
this data with Grafana in the next section.